[Music]
what's up everybody welcome to another
episode of conversations with Tom I am
here with a very intriguing person who I
I would say that were I want to think
the one a collision course was course
with real friendship so I'm certainly
communicated off yeah Mike sometimes so
I call you if you are a your your random
acquaintances randoms okay yeah but we
we could what how did you phrase it
I said friendships were on a course yeah
heading friendship course an F Sierra
yeah but my first alcohol was stealing a
bottle of fine bourbon from my dad's
like big wooden roll-up cabinet in his
office because alcohol was totally
forbidden in our house remember so to
frame it for the audience you were
saying you grew up in a very restrictive
household you had a squeeze box which
I've never heard on a TV that would
somehow auto-translate in real time
swear words it was a feat of Engineering
yeah it would it would silence the movie
or the show whenever swearing occurred
and then showing closed caption the
substitute word right so like [__] was
Wow
and [__] it was [__] wasn't even crap
they would because crap can be offensive
to any people or I forget what what [__]
was but my brothers and I would stare
there transfixed at the screen like
watching the mouths move trying to
figure out what they were saying and
then we'd go and look up these curse
words wait so we got very very good at
swearing from it you know so kind of
backfired you know my my parents edition
of the squeeze box the only thing I have
installed on our TVs a blue light
blocking box okay so that's our version
of swearing in the green field has
stereo blue lights at night but yes that
style of parenting that dictates that
the best way to protect a child is to
just have forbidden fruit everywhere
right don't expose them to any semblance
of porn or swearing or alcohol or
anything because you know God forbid
that their innocent little
get exposed to that and in my opinion
you know coming back to me stealing a
bottle of bourbon from my dad's desk and
going to get drunk in my bedroom all you
do is set up forbidden fruit and a very
inappropriate view of these things and
complete lack of knowledge over the
responsible use of them right so in our
house there are no rules right it's it's
actually a style of parenting called
love and logic okay meaning that rather
than saying no to your children or
setting up boundaries or strict rules
you simply educate a child about the
consequences of any decision that they
might make and then you let them make
the decision and if they make the wrong
decision to suffer from the consequences
of that so that so obviously the
prefrontal cortex isn't fully formed
right they're gonna make moronic
decisions at a biological level you
don't want to let your two-year-old go
and stick their hand in the fireplace
because you want them to experience what
fire is right there there are certain
boundaries but in in do you explain to
vary your kids like yes logic system but
in a very common-sense way okay yeah so
you know gluten for example we don't say
oh you can't eat gluten you can't go to
Jimmy's birthday party and have a
cupcake or a slice of birthday cake you
instead educate them about some of the
biological impact of gluten you know
some of the ways that you could undo
some of the damage like there are even
enzymes like dipeptidyl peptidase-4
digest gluten it turns the soup right so
kids say that word
I don't know but so you don't you don't
analogize it for them you just tell them
straight up this is the enzyme they
either remembered or they don't right
you or this is the damage and then you
make the decision and they'll come home
from a birthday party and they'll say
something like dad they had cupcakes
there I had a quarter of a cupcake
because they looked really good took
some gluten Guardian and sometimes
they'll make the wrong decision their
tummy will hurt the next day and they'll
know why like don't volunteer that
information and how
you help them process who that is there
any judgement in your voice is there a
haha told you so no just like hey this
is how gluten is yeah it's just the
facts and then the consequences and that
goes for good things too we're like
supplements so they like they've done
genetic testing I had their genome
sequenced and I don't want to sound like
I'm some helicopter tiger parent I just
want to quit my kids for you know having
every advantage in life that I can give
them so I had their genome sequence so
that they could make intelligent
decisions about their health and so that
I could help them with that so they for
example don't have the gene that allows
them to make vitamin D from sunlight
they're twins yeah I've been
eleven-year-old identical twin boys ma I
was like hey yes good word they don't
have the gene that lets them make
glutathione right the one of the master
antioxidants they have low levels of the
one called brain derived neurotrophic
factor that's like the Miracle Grow
through the brain so in the pantry and
in the refrigerator I've got glutathione
I've got like this vitamin D vitamin K
liquid blend and I have lion's mane
mushroom extract which is a good kind of
precursor for BDNF okay and I never say
yo kid go take your supplements did you
take yourself once yeah take your
supplements today but I will go to the
fridge and open it up when they're
they're having breakfast and I'll say
hey guys I'm taking my glutathione
taking my fish oil mmm this vitamin D is
so good right and so you simply set an
example for them and educate them on the
consequences of their decisions and you
know same thing for screen time right
like there's no rule that they can't be
on their iTouch or they can't be on
their MacBook or they can't go play
video games but the norm in our
household is set by mom and I meaning
that when there's downtime at the
Greenfield house
I'm strumming on my guitar or I'm a
reading a you know a hardcopy book laid
out on the couch or I'm outside you know
foraging for plants or shooting my bow
or shooting the basketball in the
driveway and so our kids when there's
downtime you know they
go outside throw the football around
they they lay in their bed for long
periods of time just reading books they
they their go to is not a video game or
a screen but that's because they didn't
grow up in a household where that was
the norm so a big part of it is you you
can't tell your kid like be careful with
gluten and screen time can be difficult
on your sleep rhythms at night and then
go watch Netflix need a peanut butter
and jelly sandwich on the couch and you
know and display to them something
that's the complete opposite yeah I
remember my mom I love her to bits and
pieces but her famous phrase was do as I
say not as I do and yeah not not not
probably the best strategy yeah yeah
although it's weird I've often wondered
how my mom managed to help my sister and
I avoid stupid things so my sister and I
didn't get in a lot of trouble either of
us we didn't steal we didn't drink we
didn't do drugs I was probably afraid of
it is the honest answer when I was a kid
I had a lot of extended relatives my mom
and my dad didn't drink but most of my
aunts uncles and everybody else did and
there was a lot of alcoholism in the
family and so watching them act the fool
was a pretty big turnoff so it was sort
of like the kid that's ultra screaming
and freaking out all times like that's
pretty good
prophylactic right there that does not
make me want to have children so yeah
just seeing everybody act weird I didn't
get into it I met my first drink until I
was 26 so there was even though it was
sort of forbidden fruit my mom would
have flipped the [__] out if we had
gotten drunk but they did let us have a
sip of alcohol or if we wanted to try my
dad's beer or something but I was found
it disgusting you know so I didn't but
the real reason that I waited and waited
and waited was because I was afraid I
wasn't I didn't want to act stupid yeah
and that's the problem
is there are many compounds on this
planet that we live on that are very
helpful but irresponsible use of them
has painted them in a horrible light for
a lot of people I mean you know alcohol
is a very simple example when you look
at a lot of the blue zones I mean
they're drinking aunt
rich wines and bitter forward cocktails
and these lend better digestion you know
when you have them with a meal actually
think that's real like this wine
actually do something positive yeah yeah
so is it antioxidants so that one is one
where I've heard evidence for the
evidence against and it's a little bit
of the antioxidants a little bit of the
tannins the resveratrol thing was kind
of blown out of proportion you would
need to drink a lot of wine and there
are better ways to get the resveratrol
like some kind of a great skin extract
supplement or something like that
but if we're not talking about a big
California cab where there are a lot of
pesticides and herbicides and chemicals
and sulfites allowed in wine that is
produced in the US and we're talking
about more like an organic biodynamic
European wine like a French or an
Italian wine that has grown under hardy
er conditions right less irrigation on
the crops
so you're basically concentrating the
antioxidants you're inducing that xeno
hormetic effect which refers to this
idea that certain plant compounds even
though they're they're mildly damaging
to the human body just like UVA and UVB
radiation from the Sun or heat from a
sauna or cold from a cryotherapy unit in
small doses can actually induce cellular
resilience can actually cause the body
to bounce back stronger and when you
look at a grape that's been stressed and
grown with low irrigation you do
concentrate the antioxidants you
concentrate some of these xeno hormetic
compounds you even concentrate there is
Vera trawl so it depends on the alcohol
but part of it is the antioxidants the
tannins and some of these compounds that
do induce cellular resilience the other
component and this would be especially
with like a bitters forward cocktail and
anything that that's bitter from nature
whether it's the mint family or thyme or
rosemary or berberine or anything like
that
it actually increases your insulin
sensitivity after you've consumed it
meaning that it would lower the
intensity of the blood glucose response
to the carbohydrates that you would eat
in conjunction with that alcohol
so there are some benefits from it from
a digestive standpoint and from a
cellular resilience standpoint and I
don't think that you have to drink to be
able to live a long time but there is
some evidence that a lot of these blue
zones are having you know for the women
one to two drinks a day for the men two
to three drinks a day of like a good
clean alcohol and some of it could just
be the relaxation the fact that it's
being consumed at the end of the day and
you know during lunch in a social
setting you know with family with
friends you know and of course the
absence of loneliness itself is is
enormous ly important for longevity and
yes that stuff to me really confounds
the issue of so I I look at this stuff
from the perspective of I want something
prescriptive I want to know exactly what
to do if I want to extend not only life
but functionality I want to be sort of
high power for a very long time and so
you start looking at this stuff and I
know and I need to get Peter attea to
talk to this on his own but I know when
he was back with new C and then he ended
up leaving new C part of it was the
frustration of really running
experiments that are are just obviously
causative instead of getting a whole
bunch of correlative data so is it the
drinking that has the effect or is it
chilling with your friend is that the
timing is it the tannins is that the
antioxidants like if [__] so part of
what makes me always skeptical about
alcohol may be entirely personal in that
when I drink I get a high inflammatory
response and as somebody who's prone to
inflammation very prone to information
I'd actually be really interested to do
some genetic testing and to see if there
are any markers that I have that show so
I have Naga there's a name for it but
where you can like right in the skin so
if I were to scratch myself I would welt
in like so I could write my name in my
arm or something and it was just welt
ups not as bad anymore
certainly now that I've changed my diet
and I've introduced a lot of quality
fats and taking my carbohydrates
basically to zero I don't have that but
growing up when my diet was an atrocity
I was just
wildly inflamed so if I go out and I
have even one drink I will feel it the
next day for sure and I'm no I am NOT a
heavy drink or anything yeah I would
well first of all if they do do the test
where they where they determine whether
it's drinking with your friends in a
social setting that induces longevity or
something in the alcohol itself and they
have the group that drinks bottled water
at night hanging around the campfire in
the group that gets the wine I want to
be in the wine group I'm just gonna just
gonna sit right now for the
psychological or I just enjoy a glass of
wine more than a you know bottle of
sparkling water cause the way it tastes
or because of the way it feels both both
you know and you also get a little bit
of that inhibitory neurotransmitter
release it's a gaba right in response to
a glass of wine or a cocktail that just
kind of relaxes you at the end of the
day kind of d stresses you so there's
that too but related to what your timer
with the skin and some of the issues
that you've had you know that that
sounds eerily similar to like kind of an
autoimmune condition for short ah t
response and there is one lab testing
company that I do place a good amount of
faith in in terms of not giving you a
host of false positives like foods or or
chemicals or toxins that your body is
producing an immune response to and
that's cyrex Laboratories okay and any
any good functional medicine doc can
order you a cyrex lab panel for for mold
for mycotoxin for fungi for antibody
reaction to foods but they tests the
white blood cell response to both the
cooked and the raw version of the
protein so you're not getting all these
reactions that would normally be
produced anyways if the blood cells got
exposed to say like raw egg or a chick
and so they're looking at the cooked
version they're looking at cross
reactivity between some of these protein
compounds so that's a good test to see
if you have some autoimmune issues and
then you could say oh well here's the
you know the list of eight foods that
are inducing that kind of inflammatory
reaction now do you think that
autoimmune is driven entirely by food or
things you consume no or no not
necessarily I mean you can produce an
an antibody response to two you know
something like like fluoride for example
you know you can produce elevated
thyroid antibodies in response to that
you know mold mycotoxins fungi there's a
lot of things that can cause the body to
go into almost like this cell danger
response so it doesn't just have to be
food so super random and this may be
just a complete departure from what
we're talking about but I am really
curious to talk to you about a
particular ll 37 so as you know Lisa has
struggled my wife for any first-time
listeners welcome my wife has struggled
profoundly with microbiome issues
profoundly for years we're going into
year four we may have just completed
year four which is terrible I think we
did so four years since she had a
threshold event and all hell broke loose
and it's been pain and suffering and
trying to figure out what's going on and
what she did all that so now we've made
massive progress for an entire year that
our life was on hold there was a period
where I was actually afraid she was
gonna die it was [__] crazy and
somebody said to me oh you should look
into ll 37 and then you were the first
person I pinged to say hey is this real
and now's our chance tell me about it
well ll 37 is a peptide okay sounds like
a robot it's a peptide and a peptide is
simply an amino acid sequence and I'm
actually very excited about peptides
because they're inventing in researching
all sorts of new peptides that precisely
target specific cell responses like I
first learned about peptides when I had
a joint injury and someone told me about
this one called BP c 157 and many
peptides are like this but it's it's an
injectable right the same as a diabetic
would inject with an insulin syringe
very small needle you know you pinch
away a little fat from typically around
like the the stomach some people will go
closer to the area of injury like like
around the knee for example there's
debate back and forth about whether it
works best locally or systemically but
BP c 157
is actually what's known as a gastric
healing peptide BP C stands for body
protection compound your body naturally
makes it but you can synthesize it and
get it into the body in higher amounts
and it has this very profound
anti-inflammatory effect when I found
out about that one
you know I started to go down the
peptide rabbit-hole I learned about one
called
TB 500 that repairs actin and myosin
fibers in torn up tissue right for
something like achilles tendonitis or or
a knee injury or something like that and
then it turns out that these companies
there's one in Kentucky called
tailor-made compounding they have amino
acid sequencing machines where they can
make all manner of different peptides
like you know I think the last time I
was on your show we talked about
nootropics and smart drugs while they're
now making peptides that do things like
shut down neural inflammation increased
blood flow to the brain healed the
blood-brain barrier and those are not
even injectable like ones called dye
hexa and it's a topical like a
transdermal lotion another one is called
C max and it's like an intranasal spray
and you know a lot of people are into
whatever daffodil or micro dosing with
LSD or lithium or you know all these
different nootropics and these things
work very very precisely in a very clean
and immediate manner
have you tried those no yeah I do walk
through them I want to know like nasal
spray topic one anything so make
something for the brain and you know
about will circle back to will come back
to ll 37 for sure so for the brain
particularly BP c 157 the one i
mentioned earlier is also a neural
anti-inflammatory okay so that was like
a mentioned emic anti-inflammatory to
stomach yeah so it'll work on amazing
myself or your wife on the gut yeah
that's something I would include in a
peptide protocol okay come back to ll 37
but BP c 157 would be one and again for
muscle injuries that would be
co-administered with tv:500 for the
brain the lotion that you smear on
either side of your neck like when you
get up in the morning is call
dye hexa we'll give you about six to
eight hours of clean-burning energy
without any side-effects not like
ephedra herb amate no synthetic nervous
system stimulation like it's it's it's
very clean like you don't feel like your
hearts racing anything like that
the intranasal c-max it works very well
combined with the dye exa and again
that's a couple sprays and each nose you
kind of snort for about thirty to sixty
seconds and that hits the brain so those
two are very good although the first
ones giving me energy
your description sounds a bit like
caffeine with no jittery it's kind of
like that and so then the other one is
doing what it's like a mode a Finnell
without any I've taken modafinil yeah
and the easiest way for me to describe
modafinil is you still feel tired but
you don't feel like you need to go to
sleep exactly
so not as cool as I had hoped it would
be I had I had scheduled in addition to
modafinil when I heard that it was given
to narcoleptics when it was given to
fighter pilots to be able to stay up all
night and stay sharp and not get any of
the jitteriness of caffeine I thought
[__] sign me up doing anything that
means that I don't need to sleep when I
don't want to obviously you pay the
piper at some point so this was never
gonna be something that I did all the
time but I thought they were there were
certainly times where it would have been
incredibly beneficial to not need a
night's sleep so you're saying it's like
that where you don't feel the need to
sleep but you still feel tired if you're
tired you don't feel tired though that's
the thing is it's it's clean your head
is more clear and clean than if you're
using mode Athena and are you taking it
when you're fatigued or are you taking
it first thing in the morning to
jumpstart you can do either you can do
either I like to stay ahead of fatigue
right so so you know I track my sleep if
I've had let's say you know for me
six-and-a-half hour sleep night would
dictate from me the need for something
like that or or the knowledge that I'll
be more productive if I put something
like that into my system for me you know
seven and a half to eight hours is a
sweet spot I feel good I don't you know
when I wake up and I've had seven and a
half to eight hours of good sleep not
just time in bed but actual time asleep
I know it because I don't wake up
thinking about coffee that's one of my
litmus tests I can tell you beyond a
shadow of a doubt I wake up and I'm
thinking about coffee and then I check
my sleep score afterwards it almost
always shows like my deep sleep was too
low or my REM sleep is too low or I was
in bed for eight hours but I was up and
down and only got you know six six and a
half hours of sleep so that's a
situation in which I would use something
like that and the c-max the it's also
known as cerebral lysine apparently what
that does is improves the integrity of
the blood-brain barrier so essentially
it means that compounds that you would
be consuming from the diet like you know
acetylcholine for example from walnuts
or eggs you would be able to cross the
blood-brain barrier more readily and you
would get less inflammatory molecules
into the brain there are two others that
would not be necessary but that are
interesting as cognitive peptides one is
called cordage --n and that one is used
for memory i don't know the mechanism of
action it's apparently as the name
implies related to your cortex but it is
supposed to improve I don't even
remember if it's short-term or long-term
memory but apparently if you want to
improve your memory that's one to take I
don't have my I don't have a bad memory
I've tried it noticed I didn't notice
much but what I should have done and
I'll probably do this at some point in
the future is use do you know that that
app called n-back No okay so n-back is
one of the few brain training apps
that's been shown to actually increase
both short-term and long-term memory
with repeated use and back the letter N
and back so for example it goes from N 1
training all the way up to n 10 training
ok and in N 1 training it would show you
a square that lights up on a grid of 10
squares on a screen and you would see
where that square lit up and then
another square would light up and then a
final score would light up after that
and if the third square that lit up was
the same that occurred as N 1 ago you
push a button and if it didn't then
you don't push the button and at the
same time it's doing sounds so you might
see the square on the upper right-hand
corner of the grid will light up and
you'll hear the letter K and then the
square in the middle will light up and
you'll hear the letter G and then the
square on the lower right will light up
and you'll hear the letter K well in
that situation you would know that the
letter K occurred n times ago but not
the square so all you'd push in this
case on that by use the picture of the
ear instead of the eye and sometimes
it'll leave both the ear in the eye so
as you can tell yeah you'll smoke coming
out your ears once you get up to like n4
I've never gotten higher than n4 and and
with repeated training you probably
could sue because you're trying to
remember the square in the sound that
occurred for four instances ago and what
I'd like to do is try that chord again
and see if it proved again and adding
and then the final one is called
penny Allen and that works on the pineal
gland this one's interesting because a
lot of people and this is what does the
pineal gland do the pineal gland among
other things is responsible for
melatonin and DMT production okay
right so it'll help out with sleep but
then also you know DMT is of course now
well known by many folks as being
associated with like the use of plant
medicines or journeying or tripping like
your body's releasing massive amounts of
DMT and that type of scenario but it's
also releasing it when you're lucid
dreaming when you're engaged in creative
thought patterns you know it's it's it's
related to that left and right
hemispheric coordination of the brain
the merging of analytical and creative
thinking
so this penny Allen is supposedly
increasing the amount of activity in the
pineal gland like increasing its ability
to produce something like DMT or
melatonin and some people can actually
have low pineal gland production due to
what's called calcification of the
pineal gland and that can occur in
response to large amounts of fluoride
consumption all right that's why there's
this whole conspiracy theory about
fluoride in the water being used for
mind control because it somehow scaling
up the pineal gland
and I'm not a conspiracy theorist I
don't think anybody's trying to control
our minds but I do think fluoride has an
impact on the pineal gland that could be
reversed by the use of this penny Alan
or even if that wasn't your goal and
your goal was to instead have a more
exaggerated response to plant medicines
or better creative and analytical
thought patterns yes please or increased
melatonin release it could be reasonable
for that type of stuff so top of the
totem pole the dye hexa and c-max the
topical lotion and the intranasal spray
oh the cordage in and the pinyon are
interesting but I don't think completely
necessary and then well that's do you
say that but you have a crazy [__]
memory I can this stuff that you can
rattle off is insane I would say that
only in the realm of health fair but
don't ask me who's 38 president was but
that's where you spend the bulk of your
time so I get a lot of credit from the
public for having a great memory and I
always want to laugh because I remember
such a miniscule fraction of the
information that I encounter it's just
that I read so much that I'm
encountering so much data that sure if I
read sort of in swarms enough I'm going
to be circling around the same ideas
enough that I'll start to retain and
adjust you know they sort of stack but
if if I could even remember ten percent
of what I read it would be a
game-changer for me so things that this
is part of the reason I'm such a
psychopath about getting sleep is I'm so
aware of just cognitive optimization I
feel like I've always been at a deficit
cognitively and so I'm always trying to
do things like get sleep or whatever
that will have that kind of impact so I
guess I'm secretly hoping that the
reason that you didn't because I'm very
happy to take supplements drugs if
they're real and they work I will give
them a shot all day every day so my hope
is that you have a good memory and that
you didn't notice it cuz you're on sort
of the upper ends of the spectrum and
that for somebody like me that it might
actually have a noticeable effect it
could be awesome could be we can talk we
can talk sleep hacking later if you want
to if you want to talk a little bit
sleepy I'm game for that all right cool
so back to this peptide ll 37 yeah so
one
my friends Karl 1 or Carlin or radio
yeah yeah he got SIBO small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth and normally you
would limit your consumption of what are
called fodmap foods fruit and yes
although saccharides monosaccharides
disaccharides and pauline and onions and
wheat and you eliminate those and it
helps with the bloating you can take
certain antibacterials or what is known
as an elemental diet those are often
prescribed for a SIBO based diet as well
usually the the standard at this point
for SIBO testing even though it's not
super accurate is you do a breath test
right you swallow a glucose or a
lactulose based sugar solution you
breathe into a tube and it monitors the
amount of gases that are produced and
will tell you you know whether or not
these bacteria and their small intestine
are fermenting much much more than what
would be expected and you have this
so-called small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth ll 37 apparently does a very
fishing job knocking out that bacterial
overgrowth to such an efficient extent
that and I tried it and I experienced
this myself you feel pretty crappy for
about two days up to a week after you
begin using it because you're getting
what is known as a herxheimer reaction
like a detox reaction as your nuking all
this bacteria in a small intestine and
this is either just a peptide it's just
a peptide you all you're doing is
injecting it subcutaneously and in many
cases you do be PC 157 at the same time
to knock down some of the gut
inflammation there are other things that
I think would help depending on what the
condition is like if it's aggravated by
leaky gut for example or gut
inflammation glutamine is wonderful for
that l-glutamine you can buy like you
know l-glutamine powder yeah I amaz we
tried out glutamine and no noticeable
impacts and some of the stuff stacks you
know bone broth is enough
like yeah heavy consumption like four to
five cups of bone broth per day I would
say bone broth was a winner for us and
colostrum is amazing Robin colossi is
that most of it is sold in capsules
colostrum is the first part of any
mammalian mother's milk and all babies
are born with the permeable gut lining
and the way that that's healed up is the
exposure of that colostrum from mother's
milk this is why kids who are raised on
infant formulas based on soy oftentimes
have immune system issues or leaky guns
as they age because they didn't get the
colostrum which would cause this it's a
protein called zon Yulin but it down
regulates the levels of zon Yulin in the
gut and that causes that got to be less
permeable how long is the female
producing colostrum I don't know yeah
yeah anyways though the problem is that
most of its oldest capsules but by the
way the way that it works when a baby is
suckling the colostrum is inside its
mouth first and it's the salivary
amylase in the mouth that activates all
the healing growth factors in the
colostrum so you have to buy the powder
and that's what I do is that I use it
because you get spouter colostrum powder
o'clock I can't you get it as milk is it
just you can't I think you can if you
get if you get raw milk
it should have some colostrum in it and
probiotics and enzymes but a lot of
people these days are pretty cognizant
of their weight and the best way to turn
a baby mammal into a big fat big you
know adult mammal is by giving it lots
of milk right and so if you're concerned
about calories or gaining too much
weight or staying lean or even just
inhibiting constant anabolism which is
somewhat associated with carcinogenicity
you know you don't want to be in a
constant pro-growth state then maybe
consuming all the calories along with
the colostrum so this is how does the
loss terminal pulling out the sugars
like what are they yeah you don't you
don't get the milk proteins you don't
get the lactose right the milk sugars
some things you can isolate 15 calories
in a heaping tablespoon of it
right so it's so it's not like you're
getting all the calories you'd get from
raw milk which is close to the
equivalent of just like mowing down ice
cream right from four just from a body
composition stand right so you get the
powdered colostrum and then you put that
in your mouth and you swish it around in
your mouth for a little while one to two
minutes and then you swallow that like
white saliva coated solution that you've
got in your mouth and that's incredible
that's probably top of the totem pole
for me we've got held in ll four seven
four gut health specifically gut
permeability they've even done studies
and athletes right and this is how I
first discovered colostrum because I was
competing in triathlon like Ironman
Hawaii in very hot conditions but having
still eat you know 350 400 calories an
hour during that race exercise makes the
gut permeable heat and exercise makes
the gut even more permeable in real time
it breaks them that fast exactly so I
take the colostrum I load with it for
two weeks leading into the race and it
makes the gut less permeable and as a
total aside this is why one of the worst
things you can do if your marathon or
triathlete just pop ibuprofen or Advil
during the race or before the race
because that just it goes straight into
your bloodstream and can induce kidney
toxicity Oh
hit your system so fast well it gets one
of the worst things you can do for your
liver and your kidneys to consume
ibuprofen or Advil when your gut is
already permeable and doesn't add news
bears so for your wife I would
definitely consider ll 37 and bbc1 57 if
she knows and is aware that she might
feel kind of crappy for two days up to a
week after the ll 37 now do you keep
taking the ll 37 and does that go away
or it goes away when you stop taking
should kill the bacteria so when you're
asymptomatic and I am I don't want
anyone to think I'm a doctor I'm not I
don't want them to misconstrue this is
medical advice I'm just like a I'm a
hacker right like I just I study up on
this stuff and find interesting
information and try and synthesize it
for people but ll 37 would be until
you're asymptomatic bpc 157 I take that
regularly just as it's just such an
teamraiser great systemic
anti-inflammatory I feel wonderful now
so a guy that's living your lifestyle I
imagine well maybe you work out enough
that is that what's triggering them from
it seems like you would live it seems
like you do live a lifestyle that is so
healthy that whatever information you
have seems like maybe that's the
information that we want yes you don't
want zero inflammation exactly is that
to combat the level at which you work
out yeah you are you are correct and you
know I'm glad you made that point that
if you're taking a host of antioxidants
especially based on research has shown
high dose synthetic antioxidants like
vitamin C or vitamin E or interestingly
most recently metformin all of these can
blunt the hormetic response to exercise
so you'd produce less mitochondria you'd
produce fewer satellite cells which
allow for for muscle growth and muscle
repair so you don't want a time anything
that quells inflammation too close to
the exercise session and that would even
include like a long cold soak right like
a quick cold shower after workout to two
minute cold shower like slaps athletes
into a post-workout and bad news better
strategy especially if you're working
out in the afternoon or the early
evening would be to use a quick cold
shower to cool the core temperature so
you sleep better because a cold
temperature is one of the best ways to
activate good sleep cycles but you don't
do a big long ice bath you time that
separate from the workout like later on
in the day at least a couple hours after
the workout so that natural inflammatory
response has had a chance to occur there
are some exceptions that rule there are
there are some antioxidants that they
have tested on exercising individuals
and they don't quell the inflammatory
response to exercise or quell the the
natural hormetic response to exercise
some of the more well-known ones are
green tea extract I like EGCG matcha
like any of the components of green tea
you can take that after exercise and it
has an anti-inflammatory that doesn't
blunt the Hermetic response to exercise
another one is care seating it's a
compound you would find in things like
red apples and onions but it's also
available as a supplement and it's got a
lot of really great properties kare
Seaton does but it's specifically a
anti-inflammatory that doesn't blood the
hormetic
response to exercise hydrogen hydrogen
rich water you can buy hydrogen tablets
now put them in water they have a really
good antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
effect but again don't blunt the
hormetic response to exercise it's just
hydrogen rich water yep exactly there's
a if you go to the website of the
molecular hydrogen foundation they have
a lot of research on the benefits of
higher concentrations of hydrogen in
water there's also a growing body of
research showing that a much larger
isotope of hydrogen called deuterium is
actually something that's very damaging
to the body and you find about this very
here in God's Word
yeah very concentrated levels of
deuterium are found in crops that are
sprayed with pesticides and herbicides
your body would normally make its own
deteriorated water if it's in a state of
fatty acid oxidation like if you're
limiting starches and sugars but if
you're eating a high carbohydrate diet
you're gonna tend to have higher levels
of deuterium and if furthermore you're
not selecting organic produce so you got
a lot of glyphosate herbicides
pesticides you're gonna also have a big
deuterium load so lots of hydrogen is
good along especially with low amounts
of deuterium when it comes to your water
so back to me and why I take steps to
shut down inflammation number one I am
an exercise fiend like not only have I
up until this past month competed
professionally in Spartan racing and an
Ironman before that body building but a
great deal of unnatural beat down put on
the body not that I profess that to be
healthy like that's that's my personal
Mount Everest you know I get a kick out
of going out and competing on the field
of battle I get a little bit kind of
pent up if I don't get out to the gym to
throw some weights around like it's kind
of my happy place to be competing to be
exercising and I think that there are
probably fewer people in prison because
gyms exist right it's a chance for us to
get out and kind of kind of get
cathartic you know do what we might have
in primal times done while hunting or
being on the field of battle or
you know or you know venturing exploring
whatever the case may be you know we are
when you're doing that because I find
this particularly interesting do you
intentionally channel aggression that
may not be the word you would use it
certainly is the word I would do not I'm
not the angry guy at the gym I did as a
matter of fact for aggression Touche
I am pretty aggressive at the gym I am
yeah to me like man there is something
about aggression there's a level of
intoxication and so when I think about
things that intoxicated I think about
all right there's an evolutionary reason
that this exists to make it pleasurable
to make it hunger and I won't quite say
that aggression has the same sort of
push or pull that like a sex drive has
which really feels like a hunger we just
feel compelled to do it
but when I tap into being aggressive it
makes me feel so good like there is
something there and as a kid I was not
taught to be aggressive and so I spent
my entire childhood never tapping into
that and then as I became an adult and I
got married and then I wanted to add
muscle mass and there was a whole like
protect my wife thing and so I used to
work out in the gym thinking of my wife
is being attacked and I'm too weak to
stop her and so that would like push me
so [__] hard and by learning to be
able to step into the aggression and
then actually so one thing is you look
at somebody like Arnold Schwarzenegger
and you think okay he's been able to
translate what he's done to the body
into so many other areas of his life the
level of discipline focus and tension
all of that follow through and then yet
so few bodybuilders were able to
translate that now when I started
working out it ended up having these
echoes through every aspect of my life
including business so in the beginning
because I didn't have a developed sense
of aggression was very soft in my my
journey as an adult male my journey as a
business person has very much been one
of toughening the [__] up and so it
started with lifting it started with
going in and realizing that whoa there's
this channel in my mind of aggression
and that when I step into that there is
a power there is an urge there's this
sense of like whoa there's something
really primal in me and it is only ever
a sort of stage
if the way and then I can actually I
won't say on a dime but it's [__]
close man like I I have learned over the
years to be able to step into a level of
aggression it's not anger which is very
different actually don't get angry very
easily it takes a lot to make me angry
but I've learned to leverage aggression
now whether that's aggression to attack
the weights and to get stronger or
whether that's in business to be like no
this [__] obstacle is going to fall
like I am going to figure this out and
there's a level of intensity to that for
sure that is intoxicating I agree and I
think furthermore it's helpful for the
nervous system because when you look at
all these wearables now that are
measuring HRV or heart rate variability
which is the interplay between the
sympathetic and the parasympathetic
nervous system right you get the vagus
nerve innervates the heart via the
electrical pacemaker of the heart called
the sinoatrial node the SA node and when
the parasympathetic rest and digest
branch and the sympathetic fight and
flight branch are innervating the heart
in balance there's mild but detectable
beat to beat variation in terms of the
amount of time between each heart beat
and that is what is known as high heart
rate variability such as zero point
eight eight milliseconds zero point
eight nine milliseconds zero point eight
five milliseconds versus one millisecond
one millisecond one millisecond the
latter example would be someone who has
poor vagal nerve tone poor interplay
between the sympathetic and
parasympathetic nervous system that's so
counterintuitive you would think the
metronome a Qi study that goes yeah
right but but it's not the case now when
you are engaging in activities that
really prime and push that sympathetic
nervous system the entire time you're in
the gym in that state of aggression if
you were to wear a real-time like
Bluetooth enabled chest rate strap or
there there are there there's one wrist
band called the woop the the aura ring
that I'm wearing has it has a moment
function you can put onto it there's one
called a nature beat meaning if you
activate moment you can see what your
HRV is in real time what where do you
say
moment moment moment M om en T M om en T
how did I mispronounce it no that's just
I can't yet make it make sense okay it's
called a moment moment yeah cuz it's
like this is the moment that I'm in
right so like this is real time
measurement of HRV when you do that
you'll find that especially for the
harder exercises where your body's
really stressed like the back squat more
the deadlift
you have a very low HRV rise you're all
aggression there's no sympathetic right
a parasympathetic is stepped back it's
all sympathetic but in response to that
once you finish you know kind of along
the lines of that same concept of things
that are bad for you in large amounts
are good for you in small amounts your
body bounces back from that session with
greater nervous system resilience and
people who train their sympathetic
nervous system a few times a week have a
higher overall HRV even though it's
lower during that session so in the same
way that meditation kind of over
activates the parasympathetic nervous
system but long-term results in steady
increases in HRV the opposite of
meditation or what you might call more
easy tresses remember the meditation you
can absolutely meditation is one of the
better ways to increase HIV actually but
the hard weight training session you
know it's low during but then higher
after so I think there you know in
addition to just like you know like the
way we got on this topic releasing
pent-up anger I think that there's or
pent up aggression I should say there
are a lot of other you know nervous
system benefits and then of course
there's some of the reasons you
mentioned you were doing this you know
make yourself harder to kill increase
muscle mass be able to get up off the
floor better and have higher bone
density when you're old I mean there's a
lot of reasons for that and and I don't
think everybody needs to beat themselves
up to the gym to the point where they
need to use BPC 157 daily or you know a
little bit of help from better living
through science with you know the use of
antioxidant formulations or something
like that but if the gym is your happy
place and you
good and it just set you up for the day
and you feel like you've you've gotten
rid of some pent-up aggression you're
just more stable if you hit it hard in
the gym a few times a week yeah you
might need a little bit of help with an
anti-inflammatory compound what do you
think about dudes and muscle mass have
to have it nice to have doesn't matter
it depends on your definition of muscle
mass so in studies that they've done on
telomere length in response to exercise
like the anti aging longevity enhancing
effects of exercise there are certain
activities that have been shown to
reduce the rate at which telomeres
shorten more than others racquet sports
like table tennis racquetball pickleball
tennis something like that probably is
great also because you're getting that
cognitive training effect cycling
swimming and weight training and weight
trainings at the top of the totem pole I
mean if you choose any activities you
play some tennis or table tennis or
racquetball you'd swim every once in a
while you'd ride the bike and you lift
weights if you're gonna choose that the
lowest hanging fruit for longevity when
you look at weightlifting the type of
muscle that imparts the greatest
improvements in longevity is the
development of small quick wiry
explosive muscle right so powerlifting
style muscle where you're doing short
intense bouts high weight low rep style
exercise if you look at it from a pure
longevity standpoint that's very
beneficial the problem is that's also
associated with a higher risk of injury
but not a lot of people can get in you
know a few times a week and do power
cleans and overhead push press and these
super explosive lifts when you look at
bone density grip strength the blood
pressure response to exercise you get a
lot of benefits from just like the basic
you know slow moving you know there's
even a book by dr. Doug macguff called
body by science like super slow training
I love that for for a lot of the people
who all coach or help out with their
workouts because they can do that a
couple of times a week or up to three
times a week every week of the year and
not get injured rep but still maintain
strength and still maintain bone density
and then I what I read
men in addition to that is explosive
bodyweight exercises like you've got
your super slow training two to three
days of the week and on the in-between
days you might do something like the New
York Times seven-minute workout which is
30 seconds of 14 different moves done
very quickly and explosively but since
you're not loaded there's a lower risk
for injury but you're still tapping into
that explosive powerlifting style muscle
now once you reach a certain point of
muscle mass like the big bodybuilders
that takes a lot of energy to carry and
it takes a lot of energy to cool it
requires a lot of antioxidants to be
able to maintain that type of muscle and
if it's not that functional like if it's
muscle built through you know bicep
curls and whatever seated leg extensions
and all these kind of non functional
moves you know I I question whether
having to maintain all that muscle is
really worth the toll that it takes on
the body probably the only saving grace
of having a large amount of somewhat
non-functional muscle is that muscle is
a glucose sink meaning that
carbohydrates are gonna be a little less
damaging because when you eat
carbohydrates it's gonna get shoved into
liver and it's gonna get shoved into
muscle before it gets converted into
triglycerides or forms adipose tissue on
the waistline or hangs around in the
bloodstream a long time and becomes
inflammatory so if you have a little bit
of extra muscle you've got a greater
sink for glucose isn't there also a
little more ice cream which is nice
don't get me wrong or breast milk isn't
there that is exactly the second thing I
was gonna say well said isn't there some
correlation at least between longevity
and the amount of muscle mass that you
carry isn't there like some crazy
predictor like the size of your glutes
and your hamstrings and your quads or
something predict your longevity I've
never heard that but I wouldn't be
surprised and I'm really terrified that
I'm making it up misremembering
something but there's a lot of
interesting corollaries for a lunge it
like grip strength walking speed the
ability to be able to do a certain
number of push-ups or get up and
down off the floor a certain number of
times with as few limbs as possible so I
wouldn't be surprised if there was some
muscle measurement but I haven't come
across it do you know what the world
record is for push-ups
it's like push-ups without breaking
posture or something cuz I think they
can pause at the top I mean I guess 1500
yeah I would have guessed something like
that as well I'm gonna have to look this
up for just accuracy here but I'm almost
certain it's over ten thousand and I was
like nope that's absolutely impossible
and then that is the record that sounds
like a David Goggins type of thing yes
that really my problem with like the
whole like Dean Karnazes 50 marathons in
50 days or you know the David Coggins
pull-up record is I get bored I just ten
thousand five hundred and seven dude
yeah Minoru
yoshida of Japan that's [__] crazy
the most number of non-stop push-ups
there'd have to be a pretty damn big
care on the end of a stick for me well I
could need to be like the 2.5 million
dollar you know push-up challenge or so
yeah it would not ring in chief but
what's crazy me is it's that's one where
I would say anybody in their right mind
sort of guessing at what's possible will
be just factors too small yeah that's
just like even 1500 sounds absurd I
thought 500 maybe a thousand I just
couldn't fathom anything more this guy's
arms are probably like 2 inches long
let's see the photo here
well he's Japanese to the odds of him
being super gangly on low yeah I mean he
doesn't do a picture of him doesn't look
unusual I'm assuming this is him though
I can't swear let's say oh yeah he's
he's like Bruce Lee built yes yeah yes
so he's light enough to be able to I
have to push up a lot of whoo yeah yeah
he's not 240 short lives there's
explosive wire see that's the type of
body that I think is most conducive to
longevity cuz yeah some muscle mass your
functional but your explosive your wiry
like if I'm 78 years old and that's why
I'm Bill I'd much rather be built like
that
you know with with like a big like
cannonball shoulder bodybuilder tiny'mon
parents what are you your physique now
obviously you work your ass off is this
exactly the physique that you want is
this the physique that is realistic
giving having kids longevity and all
that or if you could snap your fingers
and still live forever would you be
bigger I don't think it'd be bigger you
know I like to be able to run I like to
be able to chase a tennis ball play some
Ultimate Frisbee like I do I get kind of
sluggish once I get up above about 190
I'm a 185 right now I was at 215 in
college when I was bodybuilding and was
just massive but had very low energy
ultra low body fat 3% body fat 215 yes
right now I'm four and a half percent
body fat in 185 and I feel pretty good
at this level arguably now that I'm done
doing a lot of endurance sports my body
fat percentage will go up a little bit
and that will be healthier just from a
pure hormonal standpoint but I feel
pretty good I eat too appetite I'm doing
a lot of organ meats and a lot of
colostrum
which I think are very beneficial for me
when you get your Vito hormones energy
levels when I'm at home I primarily
organ meats that I've harvested from
animals that I've beau hunted or order
them from us wellness meats they've got
these big sausage shapes meats that are
like braunschweiger and head cheese
where they mix kidney and heart and
liver but they taste really good and
they taste like like sausage rather my
kids have them scrambled up with eggs so
they're pretty tasty they're convenient
and they they have all grass-fed
grass-finished stuff so it's just all
super clean and it's a convenient way to
get organ meats
what's your ratio like how much
vegetable is in your life I'll tell you
about that I've been kind of
experimenting with that but when I
travel I am right now I'm kind of
experimenting with this this has only
been three weeks that I've been doing
this I'm taking yeah encapsulated organ
meats so I found this company called
ancestral supplements
and I'm not financially affiliated with
them at all but they make brain liver
heart adrenal thyroid and lung all
encapsulated organ means you get an
adrenal and get a sated organ me yeah
and bring various was yeah so I've been
it comes out to like 30 capsules that
I'm taking right now like mid-morning
but I'm taking all these organ meats
when I travel because it's hard to get
good organ meats when you're on the road
and I feel a lot more energy I'm not
getting sick sniffles anything like that
at all
and I think part of it is that I am in
way interested in organ meats so I'm
doing what I'll call a lazy man's
carnivore which is probably really bad I
have a feeling that you either do
carnivore or you don't
so I'm hedging my bets um vegetables but
I would really like to find a way that's
easy a way that is edible I haven't
tried we're gonna be so for all I know
it tastes like pumpkin pie but I've
never tried it so pecan pie it depends
on how it has been cooked so like liver
if I'm gonna cook liver and I just if I
just take it and whatever throw it on
the grill it's got like this gamy kind
of chewy flavor that I do not enjoy yeah
but it disgusting if I take that same
liver and I put it in a ziplock bag any
organ meat you can do this with and it
just removes all the gaming us because
it gets enzymatically broken down with
raw milk which is the best but if you
don't have raw milk anything kind of
acidic like lemon for example and you
leave it overnight that removes some of
the gay meanness then you dump it out of
the ziplock bag or whatever you've got
it in that marinade with or a Pyrex
glass container if you're concerned
about plastic and you rinse it you know
you've rinsed the the milk or the lemon
off it and then the way that I do heart
the way I do kidney the way I do
testicles the way liver is all thin
slice it and get a couple like nice
pastured eggs kind of whisk the eggs and
then I'll dredge the thin sliced organ
meat in the
then drag that through a little coconut
flour or a little almond flour and fry
it up in grass-fed butter and it's like
chicken nuggets
it tastes really good Wow yeah you
actually put through a rollover in your
Kelowna bakery money's in Drive how much
energy and ever you go to for some of
the things you eat it's fun this vessel
I enjoy cooking my kids have like a
cooking podcast like my whole family is
super into cooking but we have these
grand family dinners at home where you
know we all gather in the kitchen like
7:30 and we're all cooking and chopping
soaking and rinsing and frying and so
yeah it's a nice guy as part of the
greenfield you guys just listen to music
then we sit down at the table we play
board games we play Table Topics we
finished dinner we all clean up we go up
to the bedroom I play the guitar that
ukulele read a story to the kids like
are our nights are are amazing yeah I
think that's important for family you
know it's interesting you I heard you
talk about that and I thought that was
really cool so I've heard you talk about
prayer though I don't think you're
religious heard you talk about obviously
spirituality family love connection
hearing you describe your routine sounds
like it's not just lip service like you
actually engaged in that walk me through
that what is the what was the thing that
started that is it coming from just a
more sort of natural plays hey I just
like human connection was there
something that you came across in terms
of its effects that led you down the
process and then it became just
something beautiful or how did that all
begin I'll tell you what I do first I
wake every morning and I always have
something very spiritually enhancing
that I can read so I'm caring for my
spirit before I am before I care for the
body lately it's been Ryan holiday
stillness is the key before that it was
a book by I believe is Nestle mrs.
Keller Thomas Keller book on the
spiritual disciplines like fasting
meditation silence solitude etc but not
something fitness and health related I
also have a gratitude journal
if I don't have time to read something
inspirational or devotional or
scriptural or spiritually enhancing that
gratitude journal has a Bible verse on
the top of each page it's like something
something inspirational you know
something about hope or something about
you know God helping you get through the
day and I read that and then I answer
three questions what truth did I
discover in today's reading whether it's
from another book that I've read or
whether it's just something that left
out to me from that verse that I read
what is one thing I am grateful for
today and then what is one person or who
is one person who I can pray for or help
or serve on this day and it allows me
365 days a year
to not only be grateful and discover one
little kind of nugget that helps me to
grow spiritually but it also means 365
days a year there's one person who I'm
going out of my way to help and you know
that might mean that I'm actually you
know trudging up the forest through our
backyard and going and bringing a bottle
of wine to the neighbor up the street
and sometimes it might just mean I'm
saying a prayer for grandma right so it
kind of depends on the day and what I'm
able to do and then at the end of the
day we have these wonderful family
dinners where we do gather around the
table and we pray a blessing over the
food and we share what it was because my
wife and my kids also gratitude journal
each morning what it was that we
completed in our gratitude journals and
you know again we go upstairs and we
play songs and I say a nighttime prayer
I was raised as a Christian Reformed
Baptist and I still believe in God I
still pray everyday I read something
scriptural every day and to me there is
a great deal of confidence and comfort
that I find having hope right that no
matter how bad things might get or if
[__] goes south on any particular day
that I can
cast my cares upon this being who's in
charge of this great magical story
written for our lives you know almost
like you know j.r.r tolkien esque hero's
journey that we're all able to live out
and for me that that belief that were
were part of magic like there is this
spiritual dimension we're not a bunch of
chunks of flesh and blood flying through
space on a rock trying to see who can
[__] the most or have the best car make
the most money or whatever but that
there's something deeper out there that
life goes on after we kick the can
physically life go ahead I'm a believer
in them well life goes on spiritual life
we're all spiritual beings like you and
I are souls we are spirits are more than
just you know cardiovascular networks
and capillaries and bone matrices right
like I think there's a little bit more
to being a human than that this is all
[__] interesting so yesterday in that
very seat that you're in now I had
Richard Dawkins arguably the most
aggressive atheist on the face of the
planet and hearing people who are just I
mean unimaginably intelligent
interpreting the world one way and then
you equally unimaginably intelligent
interpreting the world in another
direction it's really interesting it's I
would say there's like I'm not religious
at all and so in terms of your
description of being spiritual or being
Souls like that doesn't resonate with me
but hearing the way that you describe it
like the sense of poetry and wonder like
that I find it it sucks me in like I
just want to listen because this is one
where I I certainly have no investment
in being right I have a strong opinion
that I am right but I don't have any I
don't have a sense of like moral
high-ground or anything like that I
didn't know that you were religious and
how how do you
you're so effortless in the science of
understanding the biology and all of
that and is it is it a sense of
ineffable
wonder - to contemplate what it means to
be a soul and you I think you'd use the
word magic is is okay so you've said
they're sort of great comfort in that
but what I'm really trying to ask is
when you imagine it with your mind of
being able to imagine bones and flesh
and capillaries and permeable gut lining
and permeable brain lining and all that
is there what does that imagining look
like is it sort of a different partition
in your mind like how do you
conceptualize the idea of a soul or a
spirit yeah and I guess I'm I'm sort of
looking if the answer is poetry I'm very
open to that I just am trying to
understand somebody who is clearly very
able to look at scientific objective
reason but also find such tremendous
wonder and freedom in the I want to use
the word you used in the in the
spirituality in being a soul the the
soul is not something that I think can
be quantified or measured
that's why religion often gets such a
bad rap because there is a certain
amount of blind faith that can often be
associated with stupidity or like how
could someone believe that this crazy
complex planet got designed by something
or someone and I will completely accept
the fact that that is blind faith that
you cannot explain something like that
through science I think that we can get
clues you know for example you know I've
done a great deal of plant medicine and
I have encountered during experiences
you know such as five Meo DMT this
overwhelming sensation of being in the
presence of a being that was just pure
light pure love this overwhelming sense
that we are not
there is a knot in the way that there
are you know alien spaceships coming
down with antennae sticking out their
head but that there's some kind of a
spiritual invisible dimension that
surrounds us that we can occasionally
get glimpses into whether that's through
a near-death experience or a plant
medicine experience and so I think we
can see little clues but even quantum
physics I don't think can fully explain
this idea that there's just like this
invisible energy inside us this spark
from which we all originated and that
that spark somehow goes on forever you
know and and that we're all these deep
souls and deep spirits at the end of the
day even more importantly and on a far
greater level than we are flesh and
blood and you know they say the eyes are
the window to the soul and you know my
wife and I and my boys and I have this
practice of I gazing where we just look
do you really just gonna ask you that
deep into each other's eyes how long do
you do it for about a couple minutes you
know my wife and I sometimes ten fifteen
minutes as we sit in bed we even have
these chairs called back Jack chairs in
the bed and like we kind of sit in the
chairs legs intertwined just staring
into each other's eyes and talking to
each other and the deep deep connection
that we have with each other from that
the feeling that we are literally
spiritually intertwined during that time
like we are one and the same thing
during sex right that I gazing during
sex turns sex from mutual masturbation
into as david deida you know discusses
in his book experiencing God through sex
like this spiritual connection where you
feel as though you were in the presence
of another soul like something that you
can't quite feel something that you
can't describe but like this deep sense
of light and love and spirituality that
you know again I can't explain i can't
put
molecular dimension description on its
or you know say how many atoms it's
comprised of or say how it came to be
but I do have faith that there's there's
a lot more to this planet that we're
walking around on than just flesh and
blood and atoms it's really interesting
so I was asking Dawkins if he and I used
a colloquial term if he believed that
there was a God neuron because like
hearing you talk about it like the sense
of reverence and Wonder and awe and then
especially because you relate it to a
plant medicine experience and I some of
this clearly just comes down to faith
right so I have faith that leans towards
the science and I have the sense of
wonder that you get from the magical
from the being a spiritual being having
a soul something that isn't quantifiable
that same sense of awe and reverence I
get from realizing like oh my god like
this is all biology but this is just
bone and sinew this this is we're on a
rock [__] hurtling through space like
that same sense of deep wonder comes to
me when I think about like these are
laws and there clearly is something that
we don't understand I think we can say
that safely about every human and
there's certainly something I don't
understand so I know there's something
beyond what I'm able to grasp I can't
even like tie in to mathematics at least
you know a physicist or somebody like
that is able to begin to see some of the
the beauty of nature in the laws of
mathematics and all of that
I can't even grasp that so I certainly
don't claim to speak from an educated
position this is me coming from what
captured my imagination so I drank very
deeply of religion when I was younger
very deeply starting in a Western
tradition moving on into an Eastern
tradition and sort of not finding
anything that really felt right for me
in either of those places but when I
think about like plant medicine and I it
comes back to that notion of is there a
God neuron is there something like
is there a reason that for you - the
plant medicine because admittedly I've
only micro dosed I've never done like a
full-blown macro dose so I don't know
that may shift things for me that I
couldn't quite predict but is there a
reason that for you you look at the same
body of evidence and it awakens
something in you that it doesn't awaken
in me and so is there something
ultimately that we would be able to look
at and say ah yes you have a reaction a
neurochemical state that I have yet to
access or can't access without exogenous
substances but you do like I've often
wondered if some people just naturally
produce a more DMT than somebody else
and so they're more likely to feel that
dissolution of the self and maybe I
don't and so I have this constant and
ever-present sense of myself which then
locks me into the body which makes me
more likely to believe and perceive life
through the notion of we're just our
biology I don't know that I find that
question very interesting I think it's a
reasonable hypothesis that perhaps
something like the extent to which you
clear serotonin from a synaptic cleft
you know we know that high high levels
of serotonin can do things like you know
induce or enhance this state of wonder
or a plant medicine experience or the
same could be said of how much DMT that
your pineal gland produces there may be
some people who are hardwired so to
speak to grasp spirituality or
experience God more readily than others
at the same time I don't think that that
means that there are certain people who
are screwed from ever having a deeply
religious experience because they just
don't make neurotransmitters the right
way and it's interesting like to even
define a deeply religious experience so
obviously I can't speak for you I don't
know what it feels like but the watching
you talk about the awe that you feel
thinking about that like I recognize
that I know that feeling but we get it
from very different things and that's
what I find interesting and I mean look
you've already said that there's just no
way to quantify it and so it is sort of
a blind faith what do you think about
somebody who
where their personality is shifted
profoundly in this lifetime through
dementia through traumatic brain injury
whatever the case may be is it
reconstituted once they're detached from
the body do you mean is is their is
their soul somehow changed once it's
attached from the body what I'm really
trying to get at is so if I were to part
of what I found so compelling as to why
we are but this flesh and bone which I
don't say as sort of a grounding
principle I say is like there's so much
on that but stories like Phineas Gage
right the railroad worker who shoots a
tamping rod through his head never loses
consciousness but is never the same
again and it's personalities
fundamentally change or the murderer who
is found to have a brain tumor right
like we know that that anatomical
changes can induce you know emotional
and and you know arguably spiritual
shifts that are pretty profound so my
question is when you think about sort of
the life beyond the body how much of the
life beyond the body is still tied to
your current personality and if your
current personality is shiftable by
changes in your brain structures or
neuro chemistry or you know like you
said a tumor simply applying pressure to
a region of the brain then is there like
a true personality that you revert back
to or like if you if you died with
dementia and you enter this mutual plane
yes are you coming back to a pre
dementia state see that's the tricky
part because we are used to describing
people based on personality based on
characteristics you know associating
someone with a certain certain set of
reactions of emotions of character
traits that I'm not sure persists when
we are in a different dimension again
this would be largely based on plant
medicine but I've had experiences where
I can feel myself as just this bee
of light completely carefree in in a
state of absolute bliss right complete
bliss and I'm you know I'm traveling as
this being of light without a care in
the world through this dimension of
colors and and I don't feel as though I
have a personality I don't feel as
though I'm analyzing anything probably
because my ego is dissolved in a
situation like that and I would not be
surprised although again I have no
freaking clue but I would not be
surprised if the afterlife
were something like that where we're
just basically floating and in total
bliss and honestly I wouldn't mind if
that were the case cuz it's a pretty
good feeling you know when I'm in that
state is like not dude like chill here
forever this is great so that might be
the state and and in a case like that if
you have dementia or some type of
anatomical or physiological or
biochemical issue you know as your soul
is is trapped inside this this flesh and
blood based body you know and until you
go into that afterlife scenario I think
probably a lot of those issues would go
away in a situation like that you
wouldn't retain those as you go into the
afterlife so do you believe that there's
a divine purpose or meaning to our lives
I do I think that the ultimate purpose
of any any human being well they're
alive in the state that we are on this
planet is to love and care for our
fellow human beings as deeply and
intensely as possible I think that if
you ever questioned what your purpose in
life is or you ever question what to do
in any specific scenario it's kind of
funny how love seems to cover up just
about anything even just the words I
love you or
projecting the emotion of love towards
someone or giving yourself self-love by
you know simply taking a breath in and
being grateful for being alive and
loving yourself no matter who you are I
think that that that is the the deepest
purpose that we can have is to simply
love and care for our fellow human
beings and if if there's a greater
purpose than that and you know there's
there's something else we're supposed to
be doing I could be wrong but I think
the most fulfilling thing that you can
do no matter what your calling is is to
ensure that it is based around loving
others going back to love and logic
how do you introduce this to your kids
is it this is what I believe is it this
is what is true like how do you
introduce the night so it's absolutely
this is what I believe right it's it's
absolutely living out my life loving my
wife loving my children doing the best
job that I can being at being an ethical
moral upright guy you know trying to
take care of my family showing my
children what what hard work and
persistence is showing them what what
loving my wife and being a good husband
is showing them what caring for them and
and and being there for them is and you
know I've for example said to them you
know I I believe that something created
all this that that we're living in and I
have no way to explain it but that's
what I think to me it's it's it's a more
returning to that word magical and
compelling idea that I'm in this you
know JRR tolkien esque story with you
know demons and wizards and Dragons and
hobbits and dwarfs and elves and and all
sorts of crazy magic and that's more
interesting to me than that we somehow
just gradually evolved to become this
way but I don't tell them look you you
must believe this is the way things are
like you you have
to believe that there is a god or you
are going to go to hell like that's not
the style of parenting again very
similar to eating gluten right or
screentime right
I do my thing I try to be the best
example for them and love them as much
as possible for everything that they are
no matter who they are or who they
become I will always love them and do
you do you believe in evolution do you
believe that was something that like God
started the rules or I believe in micro
evolution absolutely like I believe in
epigenetic adaptations I believe that
you know humans can change
generationally even faster than that if
you induce or introduce CRISPR DNA
technology and so yeah I believe that
for example if you look at like you know
the probability that at some point
humans went through a very cold time
right and we know that any liquid will
freeze at a higher temperature when
there are there when there are a greater
number of solids floating around in that
liquid so you know diabetes could have
evolved as a response to some type of an
ice age type of scenario right like
humans evolved this protective mechanism
that now isn't that great of a mechanism
in the scenario that we're living in I
believe that that animals can change
over time based on their environment to
grow you know thicker fur or you know
thicker pads and their feet or anything
like that I don't believe that we all
came from nothing I believe that in the
beginning there was there something
there was some kind of deep spiritual
light and love-based being that decided
to make this crazy funky place that
we're all living in now super
interesting talk to me about where we go
from here then so you brought up CRISPR
Castine the ability to edit genes
essentially the ability to play God
where do you come down on the issue as
somebody who experiments like
transhumanism yeah I mean I guess we can
push it that far but even just like
right now are you comfortable with gene
editing you you experiment on you
more than like the next person so you've
done stem cells you've done all kinds of
crazy [__] like so I wouldn't say that
you take the typical like this body is a
temple bestowed upon me by God like you
definitely are like hey he gave me some
material yeah I mean I think I think
science is cool where like I always have
and the idea that we could perhaps
increase our bioavailable stem-cell pool
so that you know and again my
big-picture overview of longevity and
anti aging is that the reason you would
try to extend your health span and your
life span is so that you're simply
putting yourself into a vessel that
allows you to fulfill your life's
purpose with much greater impact and at
a far deeper and more productive level
then you would be able to do if you died
orally or lived half of your life sick
you know what a bodhisattva is no it's
very interesting it sounds kind of like
what you're talking about so if my
memory is correct and I'm almost certain
that it is a bodhisattva is so you've
got Buddhist or seeking enlightenment
and then once you get enlightened then
you're out of the Karma wheel and you
know this part I don't remember you
ascend or something I don't know but a
bodhisattva is somebody who purposely
does not become enlightened so that they
can help other people which sounds like
what you're saying from look if if after
this it is like just never-ending bliss
and blinding light of love then why the
hell would somebody want to extend their
life why wouldn't you be rushing towards
that well the reason is that if your
purpose and fulfillment is to love other
people as much it's to bring as many
people as I can along for that ride with
me right it's very interesting and look
at this does not drive at all with how I
see the world but I find it so
fascinating to like really crawl inside
your belief system and hear how you
think it's super [__] interesting to
me yeah so so the anti-aging lunge evety
piece it's kind of funny because I get
this question you as a biohacker
tell me about the crazy stories of how
much you've messed yourself up like when
did you really hurt
so there's there's nothing like I've
hurt myself more training for an Ironman
Triathlon or you know getting barbed
wire back soon a Spartan Race or I I do
have certain filters that I put things
through that I'm going to do like
anymore if if something produces a great
amount of dirty electricity or
non-native electromagnetic frequencies
such as high amounts of Bluetooth or
Wi-Fi or something like that
I don't strap it on my head I don't use
wearables that emit signals I've seen
evidence that those can affect things
like calcium channels and may be
associated with damage to the brain
which is why I mean you're not supposed
told your Apple watch
closer than ten millimeters to your head
and it actually yeah we're not supposed
to hold a cell phone up to your ear like
there's a certain distance from the
human body then the warning labels on
those say you're supposed to follow so
I'm careful with a lot of the dirty
electricity stuff the you know Wi-Fi
Bluetooth high EMF if you go and visit
my home
like the whole thing is is hardwired
with metal shielded cat6 Ethernet cable
there's no Wi-Fi there's no Bluetooth
it's not a smart home there's no Alexa
there's no Phillips hue all the bulbs
are old-school incandescent bulbs
because they produce less flicker and
less dirty electricity like it's a very
clean feeling when you get there so I'm
pretty careful from that standpoint you
talk about gene editing I don't [__]
with my DNA like I forget what happened
you might know this to those Chinese
they genetically modified those Chinese
embryos yeah a few months ago something
happened to them though there was some
kind of downstream effects it's like the
butterfly effect like we don't know if
we modify one gene I didn't feel this
way about fruits and vegetables right
I'm all for selective breeding to make a
better tomato I'm not yet a fan of going
in and genetically modifying the tomato
to speed up what you know returning to
micro evolution or return to selective
breeding would be able to accomplish
through more natural means so I'm
careful with things like genetic
modification
I am pretty selective about which
chemicals that'll put in my body like I
wouldn't do metformin for some of the
reasons I stated earlier as a person
I've heard throw shade at metformin you
giving me [__] pause I really wanted
to do metformin and I just always
hesitated because exhaustion Asst of the
anything I don't even [__] with
supplements other than vitamin D look
the the vitamin b12 deficiency some of
the microbiome upset things like that
can be fixed with vitamin b12
supplements probiotics but it reduces
your vo2 max by 5% it's it's inhibits
like I mentioned earlier the
mitochondrial proliferation and
satellite cell response to exercise and
considering there are healthier
alternatives to do the same thing like
berberine or apple cider vinegar or
Ceylon cinnamon or any these other
things that control blood glucose
metformin is out the window for me
rapamycin due to some of the immune
system damage that that can cause yet
decreases that mTOR response you know it
would potentially increase your
longevity if you were to do that but get
that from fasting and get from exercise
some of the components in rapamycin can
even be simulated via the consumption of
fermented foods due to the spermidine
molecule that they contain that can have
some of the same effects as rapamycin
so long story short is I actually do
analyze pretty carefully some of these
things that I'll do to enhance longevity
and I am careful like I'm a father I'm a
husband like I don't want to you know
kick the can because I put the wrong
stem cells in my body or you know did
something dumb with some electrical
helmet I'm wearing while I'm asleep or
something like that so I am careful I
mean I I spent a couple hours every day
just you know it sounds it sounds like
you also are a bookworm you love to read
that's my happy place you know stuck in
PubMed stuck with my nose in a book so I
am pretty careful I try to educate
myself on this stuff yeah very smart
what do you think about fmt fecal
microbial transplant yeah so the the
this idea of a stool transfer you know
initially made popular by Jeff leach who
I think hung himself upside down or did
some kind of an
chelation while living with the hosta
hunter-gatherer tribe to see if he could
pass on some of the resilience of that
warriors gut to himself and he noted and
I was speaking at a conference about
this he said he felt changes in his
emotions and has moved in his resilience
after he did this and now we know
there's a host and a growing body of
research showing that by if you have gut
issues or you have something like
Clostridium difficile which is a pretty
debilitating colon issue that you can
fix that and normalize the biome within
a few hours after either consuming an
encapsulated form of stool from a
healthy donor or inoculating yourself
Veon enema with donor with the healthy
stool donor or going to an actual
certified medical clinic like the team
out clinic in in Britain or the Bahamas
and actually having this overseen under
medical supervision which from what I
understand at this point based on the
legality in the US is something you'd
have to do travel overseas if you wanted
a doctor to oversee but there are all
these underground web sites now or you
can you can get you know stool from a
healthy donor and instructions and it's
not rocket science like you can
encapsulate it and swallow it which
appears to be as effective as
inoculating it up your backside and
using as an enema but I think that
especially for people with with a very
unbalanced microbiome if you can get
stool from a healthy donor it's
extremely compelling yeah that's the one
I've been pushing these if for a while
there's a couple things I think she
needs to try cuz look we've gotten to a
point where I'll say homeostasis she's
fine but every now and then I like will
be out eating at a restaurant and they
probably mixed the oil or something like
that so even though she says olive oil
only it ends up being like partly
vegetable oil and it just ends up being
a [__] nightmare and she's doubled
over in pain for two days it's just it
sucks and so I've said look fmt and the
carnivore diet are sort of the two
remaining things yes why am i hearing
you talk it's like [__] there's maybe
even more complicated she should thrive
there's you know it you stack these
modalities it's like Dell beretta syns
book the end of Alzheimer's right it's
not just ketosis but they're also doing
like high-dose fish oil and DHA laser
lights on the head hyperbaric oxygen
therapy chamber like there's a lot of
stuff that you have to do all at once to
tackle that problem but he's got case
studies and people who he has his I
wouldn't say cured but really move the
dial on for dementia and Alzheimer's and
when you look at a lot of these gut
issues yeah sometimes it is ll 37
colostrum bone broth l-glutamine an
autoimmune based clean diet possibly a
fecal transplant I was speaking with a
guy yesterday who has struggle with gut
issues for the past year and just got
eight separate fecal microbiota
transplants from his wife who has
healthy stool and a healthy gut he had
to do it eight times because it doesn't
yeah hey apparently it doesn't take or
that was gonna be my heated
administration is more effective than
one time I'd be really curious if you're
gonna do any follow-up with that guy I
want to hear the [__] answer because
my big concern is some people are saying
look getting the soil ready for the seed
is as important as the seed itself so
that this so they say you need to take
antibiotics and kill all the bad
bacteria first and then but it's like
God antibiotics and we gotten this
problem in the first place so I don't
love that idea and then thinking about
people who take probiotics it's like if
you're not taking prebiotics as well
then they may not stay and it's right
you have to what seed in feet or
whatever many of them will not survive
the acidic nature of the gut yeah that
that's why I think doing it under a
medically supervised or at a medically
supervised clinic like the the timon
clinic is the one I know of that hey the
madness ta y mo UN T but it's like a
seven it's like a seven to ten day trip
yeah England and I think they have a
like a sister clinic in the Bahamas good
news is my wife
from England so yeah hazy then the
carnivore diet is interesting I mean you
briefly alluded to it and you said you
have like what you called a lazy I do a
lazy man or diet and it's awesome I feel
like a million bucks me too when I'm at
home my diet is very simple and I call
it the bastardized version of the
carnivore diet it might be similar so I
eat animal meats nose-to-tail yes I'm
not need list because math I Ania don't
you get just from the ribeye and the
steak and the meat that when it's not
balanced out with glycine actually can
have an inflammatory effect and may
accelerate aging miss LKC that's when
you get into like I don't have
inflammatory problems when I'm eating
like that but I do worry that there's
something going on unseen and you're
missing out on the proper balance of
what you would get you know it's kind of
like Tomatoes right we know that you get
more the like opinion from the tomato
when you eat the whole tomato versus
when you eat the isolated supplement
like a pea so when you eat the whole
animal nose-to-tail you're getting the
glycine you're getting the methionine
you're getting more of the the collagen
the different amino acid blends you're
getting more of the micronutrients from
the liver and some of the organ meats so
the idea is you either take supplements
like Osama but I really like the
encapsulated version of the organ meats
then just eat your meat or you order
from us wellness meats or one of these
other websites or you can order really
good organ meats and you eat
nose-to-tail so when I'm at home I eat
nose to tail organ meats I eat a lot of
I'm a big customer of wild planet
sardines like I get a ton of their
sardines anchovies mackerel herring
salmon like all these good clean low
metal fish those are the staples and
then in addition to that I do
bone broth a cup of coffee in the
morning glass of wine at night and then
because I'm athletic and I need some
carbohydrates I do almost all
underground storage organs or tubers
like sweet potato grounds underground
storage organs that's the term that
anthropologists give to like this very
ancestral form of carbohydrate that
burns super clean especially if you
don't consume it with the skins on it
right so I'll give my examples like
pureed pumpkin
and pureed sweet potato I buy those like
the BPA can I have Japanese sweet potato
organic canned version Japanese sweet
potato purple potato so good and I do a
little bit of raw honey and salt on
those right so nose to tail meat fish
bone broth little coffee little wine and
underground storage organs and when I
travel that goes out the window when I
travel I'm not you know I was at terra
wan earlier eating Buffalo cauliflower
and spaghetti squash lasagna because I'm
a foodie where I can and I liked and I
still eat clean when I travel but at
home I kind of push the reboot button I
very simple very clean and I can tell
you even though my my happiness and my
entertainment level of food is a little
bit higher when you know in Japan eating
sushi or you know down here eating some
of these crazy California cuisines when
I'm at home like it's so simple and so
clean it's so easy and if I ever had
autoimmune disease of all the different
diets I would go to it would be a nose
to tail organ meat based diet just
because like there's so few immune
system assailants in that diet yeah yeah
I look I haven't done anything that I
would say even mildly approaching
scientific but I love the idea of not
eating animals from like I love me some
animals so it'd be great if I didn't
need to eat them and so I started doing
a very sloppy primarily vegetable diet
I've never gone vegetarian that would be
a very misleading lie but I started
feeling worse so I was trying to work my
way to doing a vegetarian thing I just
didn't feel great so I was like look I
get it there's a transition period and
all that but it was so easy like just
going back to a primarily meat based
diet I feel [__] awesome and keeping
in mind that's not like oh that's what I
grew up with I grew up eating the
standard American diet eating trash
eating me to [__] pop-tarts and
bagels and toast and french toast and I
never did crunch cabin closed my jet in
fact shame on you it's Cap'n Crunch
Cap'n Crunch butter Cap'n Crunch
and make your own roof of your mouth all
itchy yes everything yes my salads were
iceberg lettuce floating in ranch
dressing erect the works 100% correct
except of course just so many croutons
yeah all the croutons oh the big Costco
croutons the giant ones we used to buy
popcorn buy a bag the size of a bean bag
from Costco it was amazing
and I have miss that my mom used to go
to McDonald's on 29-cent hamburger $0.39
cheeseburger bag she wrecked the elects
the back of the suburban with these
white greasy bags take him home put him
in the fridge and that's what we feed on
for like the next five days like your
mom already there was a period in my
life where I subsisted on three for
$0.99 Tina burritos which I don't even
know if they make them anymore they were
god-awful but they were so cheap I loved
them to the end of time and then
McDonald's but now I guess called the
value menu back then it was called the
99-cent menu and we used to just go
crazy because you could get those
burgers for two or three for 99 cents I
mean it was just yes means that's the
next big wave I think for companies that
do well in the health food space is to
reinvent healthy versions of all these
comfort foods like us do a Kraft
macaroni and cheese it's the same shape
of the noodle the same color right but
you're flavoring it with tumeric and
it's like a rice noodle you know and and
you know do a Captain Crunch but it's
you know some kind of I don't know
almond butter flavoring and high-protein
low-carb or that was literally the
thesis at Quest like really fine foods
that people you know they're going to
eat anyway all the things that get
people in trouble like the not an
accident that we came out with cookies
and chips and all that stuff so well
absolute goal is just to take all that
food
I predict mark my words I predict that
you guys will be successful with that
company well thank you that's very good
prediction I would say that's relatively
safe but yeah yeah that was that was the
whole idea man it was like when I was
thinking about my mom and my sister I
was like alright what food are they
going to eat anyway because my whole
thing is don't try to change behavior
try to leverage it so if I know you're
going to eat chips anyway what if I
could make chips you chose based on
taste and they happen to be good for you
so that you're just choosing them
because you think they're rad and
they're in that form factor because look
there are companies that spend
dollarz figuring out things like
vanishing caloric density and all that
stuff to make sure that stuff tastes
awesome that it makes you want to come
back for more all of that and then what
if you could take somebody that actually
understood the ingredients and the
metabolic effects but use all of those
things so that you would be as drawn to
or more drawn to our stuff than you
would be to something that's bad for you
and there we are were you know made of
ingredients that are actually good for
you and healthy and was that was the
whole idea I dig it
yeah very very powerful are you working
on any new books not anymore because I
finished this last one so boundless
actually I'm writing fiction I'm writing
fiction because I took a break from my
fiction to work on boundless so
boundless is it's been my project for
the past three years this idea of how
could you create boundless energy at
your beck and call all day long whenever
you'd want it and you know comes down to
like caring for the brain like the right
dressing mold and mycotoxins and lime
and fungi in your personal environment
and then looking to nootropics and smart
drugs and biohacking technologies and
you know those the n-back apps that we
talked about all these different ways
that you could care for the brain by the
the program that's running everything
and then I turned to the body and get
into the immune system jetlag sleep like
two huge chapters on sleep and sleep
hacking you know grounding earthing it's
a green cover II that they were the same
thing they are the same thing okay I
just said it twice to make myself so
nice I know yeah grounding is the same
as everything same thing so technically
grounding would be the use of like the
mats or the technologies earthing would
actually be outside a little bit but
there is the same same idea and then a
ton of anti-aging longevity you know I
get into peptides and Psalms and the
Blue Zones and you know some of the
ancestral wisdom some of the modern
science and then sexual performance
relationships a lot of spirituality
grata
I just wanted it to be you know almost
like the for our body on steroids just
like everything that goes into the
complete human blueprint let's go right
to sex let's go right to sex it's a sex
so we're sitting in bed with our special
chairs our legs are entwined we're
gazing into each other's eyes
so I'm saying tongue-in-cheek but I
actually think that's [__] awesome
what are we doing to optimize for sexual
enjoyment I'm guessing it wasn't for
sexual performance that sort of baseline
yeah that that practice is more
relationship based but for sexual
performance I mean you know for example
you know there's this idea of you know
having a big fatty steak to get your
hormones up you know before you go out
on a date nights or you know before
lovemaking and that's the worst thing
that you can do because you draw a bunch
of blood away from your nether regions
and into your gut the best thing you can
do is to consume foods that are rich in
nitric oxide precursors or arginine or
citrulline so you would have for example
a beet salad with a glass of red wine a
little bit of dark chocolate some
extra-virgin olive oil
watermelon is another great example of a
lot of cubed watermelons and beets like
this very light blood flow enhancing
meal the same type of thing that you'd
use if you if you wanted to increase
vascularity right or look good at the
beach right like that's at watermelon
and beets extra virgin olive oil
pumpkin seeds arugula is very good for
this feeds see it's pumpkin seeds for
the arginine and the citrulline baked
when I bake them good baby pumpkin see
they [__] seasons what are you good
we're kind of the season for that right
now
yeah we are serving less sea salt and so
it's this idea of putting a lot of
nitric oxide precursors into your body
because it's like viagra for your whole
body and then there are other things
that you can do that are that are kind
of cool little hacks like nitroglycerin
cream reviews that no just a little dab
of nitroglycerin cream and you get this
massive vasodilation it's like in Stevi
Agra all right so normally you'd have to
if you're going to use a little
he'll like that you'd have to time it
and you know take two hours before
whatever makes sure it's in your system
and you know maybe you're gonna use it
maybe not but it's nitroglycerine must
keep that of the bets a little dab of
that like on her clitoris or on your
balls and indeed blood flow just rushes
to the region you know there's amazing
orgasm never get rid of it right away
that well the problem is that it's so
effective it can drop your blood
pressure especially if you do for
example take viagra like that's a that's
a fast ticket to passing out you know
during sex
sounds like you've just improved money
you can get a physician to compound
nitroglycerin cream you can also find
websites that will sell you I don't know
I don't nitroglycerine go if it's on
Amazon it might be but nitroglycerin
another really really good one and this
is something that you would have to get
compounded by a doctor but it makes sex
absolutely amazing and go is a ketamine
oxytocin spray ketamine is in like
ketamine
ketamine is a home isn't a whole kit
okay talking about small amounts you get
a slight release of inhibitions and
where did I just brave and it's it's
intranasal how exciting is that see max
sorry I've seen stuff had I mean in what
ketamine and oxytocin oh [__] the trust
hormone yes that you wouldn't want in
your body if you're gonna go negotiate
to buy a used car soap like that because
it might would rather we want them to
have credibly loving do you get this
stuff not all the after-effects of like
MDMA which has a similar effect but
longer lived and it depletes your
serotonin your 5-htp a lot more but the
cool thing about oxytocin is it also
makes any touches on the skin feel
absolutely amazing so well your sensory
perception goes through the roof I have
a doctor who prescribes it and calls it
his K spray if you asked me afterwards I
can I can connect to a size amazing but
it's hard because I've used ketamine
intranasally by itself
ketamine plus oxytocin is a whole
different wild ride and the other thing
I told you about the natural glycerin
cream
that's handy to have on hand for this
because ketamine can cause a little bit
of droopy deck but you can you can
overcome that you just need a few few
things I'm here with a nitroglycerin
that's a crazy new nitroglycerin isn't
extremely explosive
I think that's if it's in dynamite okay
might not be the extra mess I don't want
anybody to blow up their penis but so
far mine has not exploded just by that
that see that stuff is super interesting
yeah yeah I mean you're essentially by
obviously a friend yeah very happy yeah
hook you up later on but but yeah so I
just cover soup-to-nuts everything in
boundless and when I turn it in to the
publisher it was 1,200 pages we cut it
down to six hundred and eight pages
every big New York publishing house
turned it down because they wanted you
know to be like the two hundred three
hundred page you know trendy airport
bookshelf type of book but I like big
books I like works of art right diagrams
illustrations photos it's a big
beautiful hardcover massive tome that's
you know I would imagine it's gonna take
somebody you know six to eight months to
get through everything and discover
everything but it's not designed to read
cover to cover you just kind of you know
if you're gonna travel you flip to the
immune system section or you know you're
wanting to enhance your your sexual
experience you flip to the chapters on
sex well now I want to talk about the
spirituality side of sex so we've got
the glycerine cream we've got the K
spray the oxytocin we're doing good
we're ready to rock but as somebody who
is a huge believer in love and
connection and that like as much as I
would have believed as a kid I would
like one-night stands they actually
weren't that interesting and so for me
like connection and makes it far more
interesting far more meaningful the any
any animal can have intercourse I mean
and you know like I mentioned many many
humans their idea of sex is indeed
mutual masturbation right like you're
rubbing your genitals together until
something fun happens and you feel
really good and then it's over and you
know they fall asleep or you know
whatever the case may be but when you
view sex as this very sacred
intertwining of souls this deep level of
connectedness that has the potential to
do something as magical as create
another freakin human being and you
treat it with that level of reverence
even if you're you're using
contraceptives and your goal is not to
create another human being which is
typically not my goal when I'm having
sex it's more the connectedness
component but coming at it with that
amount of reverence and preparedness and
looking at your partner in the eye deep
eye gazing having having the idea that
it is this special time that you create
for each other and making sure that you
spend time afterwards you know talking
and and caressing and holding and
snuggling sure that might turn you know
especially if you're married and a lot
of times you've got 15 minutes a sneek
way into the bedroom sometimes it does
make it a little bit more difficult to
schedule I would rather have sex in a
very deep spiritual manner that lasts
you know one and a half to two hours
twice a month then I would to have a
quickie twice a week and so now you know
when I get home I've been traveling for
two weeks like I have a hotel reserved
already like there will be Friday
November first right like all will go to
this hotel disappear we have we have the
overnight babysitter and it's a full-on
experience that we plan for all day
and you know it nothing's planned the
next day until at least noon and like
it's a full deep spiritual connectedness
I can tell you right now like our
relationship at home no no my
relationship with my kids because they
just feel this deep sense of love and
connectedness between me and my wife
Jessa but the relationship between Jessa
and I it just flows like everything is
better when sex is better and sex is
better when sex is more meaningful and
spiritual yeah man I actually really get
that I really get that and part of the
reason that Lisa and I have stayed
together as long as we have is really
making sure that we take the time to
stay sexual with each other I won't lie
like your description of you'd rather
two very meaningful experiences ie fall
may be somewhere in the middle I'm not
just looking for mutual masturbation I'm
definitely looking for connection I want
to be with my wife I want to be engaged
with the very specific human being that
is Lisa bill you it'll be interesting to
experiment with things like I gazing
which we've never done you're the second
person to bring it up to me and
definitely makes me want to try that to
see what it's like I think something
like that is meaningful Lisa and I don't
have kids so the only thing that ever
gets in the way for us is sometimes work
but basically I just don't think about
it during the week and then on the
weekends it's we have the time we have
the space you know don't have to worry
about interruptions and so we're able to
you know do something that's far more
connected what you're talking about
staying afterwards and touching it's
like man there there is something about
human touch it is so important and like
I read the study that was talking about
how people will go and get a massage
just because they don't have anybody to
touch them anymore like yeah gone are
the days where you're hugging coworkers
and things like that and it's putting
people in a really [__] weird place
where they just don't have that level of
connection and Lisa and I wrote this I
forget how many bullet points like a
bullet points to keeping your marriage
spicy or whatever and one of them was
just have sex like people don't have sex
they don't take time to
connect and then you know something like
what you're talking about which is to
really make it this sacred thing and to
make it a union and a real connection
and not just you know two ships briefly
docking and then parting ways I think
that's really important and so often
lost and communicating and talking and
just like really understanding where the
other person is at and it was
interesting early in my life there was a
moment where I realized that this woman
who I had been with several times but I
could never get her to orgasm it wasn't
until she really connected with me then
then she was able to and it was
interesting cuz my mom my mom if all
people when I was a kid told me if you
really want to make a woman orgasm
it's all about trust I was like what and
my mom making that offhanded comment
made me think I really need to read
Cosmo magazine I need to like under
because that was so foreign from how a
15 year old boy fantasizes about what
sex is going to be like that I was like
okay wait a second like that it was like
so jarring that it slapped me away kind
of and I thought okay like that is so
far outside of what I understand that
let me really try to conceive of this
from my partner's perspective and when I
was a teacher in film school I was used
to tell students you have two choices
before you as an artist option number
one masturbate and make movies only for
yourself option number two is you make
love and you actually take into
consideration your audience and to your
point about so many people they come
together they're not thinking about
their partner it's really just about
them and how do I get myself to the
place that I want to be and not
realizing one if you're in a
heterosexual relationship the odds of
you coming at the experience from like
these entirely different places is
essentially a hundred percent and so for
you to really be able to take your
partner somewhere where they're going to
experience something hopefully beyond
the physical something to a level of
connection that that sort of deep
wellspring of awe that exists in the
human experience even though you and I
sort of see like the origin of humans
differently I think we both share that
glimpse into
true wonder of just like John the floor
like [__] I can't believe that this is
the experience I get to enjoy like
imbuing that relationship and viewing
that moment with that is is to
understand or at least try to understand
your partner to think about them to
understand what that experience is
psychologically and physically from
their perspective yeah there's a lot
that happens even the electromagnetic
fields like they sink the HRV the heart
rate variability I was talking about it
tends to align with the heart rate
variability of the other being in the
room and it is really interesting this
whole idea of electromagnetism right
like your heart our heart produces an
electrical field your brain produces an
electrical field
it's detectable by humans and animals I
now own this suit called a hex suit HECS
it blocks the electromagnetic field from
coming off my body and it's designed for
hunting whoa and I go out into the field
so so hunting season actually opens for
me at the end of November I'll go out
for late season elk archery up in
Washington but I've been practicing with
this suit just walking around my
property putting up trail cams and I can
walk within 20 feet of a deer that would
normally just be off sprinting you know
when I'm within 60 yards and it just
stands there watching me because it
can't detect the field coming off my
body they make these as wetsuits for
sharks too because the Sharks can't
detect your field so it's really
interesting how we can all detect each
other you know even if we're not
touching through this electromagnetism
and how the electromagnetic fields
actually align when you when you're with
your partner to the extent where you're
HRV becomes very similar to that of your
partner it's like your electrical rhythm
is regulating their electrical rhythm so
there's a lot going on you know behind
the scenes so to speak that makes me
feel bizarrely a bear think about like
that's really interesting like [__] is
there does anybody have a sense of where
we're picking up on that and like how
we're reading it so I know that women
will if they live together they will get
into immense
rhythm together which is interest aged
on the moon cycles and whoever's
considered the Alpha that's who they
sink up to not let that [__] yeah for
a minute so that's super interesting and
it's something like if you have a
boyfriend it doesn't work like you won't
sink but anyway so the hypothesis there
is maybe it's pheromones or something
like that like do we have any sense of
how like I have no sense that I'm
picking up on your signals were my wife
signals even when I'm pressed against
her right so do they know how we're
receiving those signals I don't know if
if the mechanism of action has been
identified but birds I believe there are
some fish that may have this as well
have a mineral called magnetite in their
skulls kind of like right where our
where our third eye or than what we call
our third eye is you know kind of up
towards the top of the nose and this
allows them to detect the magnetic
fields of the earth and to way find
without a compass and humans have this
same magnetite built in there are
Aboriginal populations that simply know
when they're facing north south east and
west just based on that ancestral primal
mechanism of being able to detect the
Earth's magnetic field using their head
so it's possible that part of it could
be something related to our pineal gland
our third eye that magnetite mineral
that we actually have in us being able
to detect that magnetic field of not
just the earth but another human being
might be something else too my god you
know I don't know if it's if it's the
you know we know that the cells in the
heart
pick up on electrical activity we know
the entire body relies upon
electrochemical gradients so it's
possible at this electrical field that's
being generated as being somehow picked
up by the cells of the body I don't know
but it is kind of cool to think about
the fact that we all emit this
electromagnetic field that is impacted
by our emotions by our thoughts by our
beliefs that can affect other people
around us bring us closer to or farther
from us we're from from them and can
also affect for kind of animals to the
to where you can cover it up and be a
better hunter dude that's bananas yeah
and I mean this is once removed and I
kind of want to get back to why you
saying that made me feel super emotional
but so have you ever seen the video of
the shark attacking a metal plate
because they were they were pumping
electricity through it they wanted to
show that a shark isn't using its
eyesight it is simply following
electrical signals and so they put a
plate on the bottom of the ocean if I
remember it's actually done in Seattle
and they said we're now pumping this
electrical signal that mimics a fish
flopping around like it's injured and
the shark just wouldn't let up no matter
how many times it rammed into the plate
it just kept going because it's it
seemed as if it just could not accept
that that wasn't a flopping fish and I
thought whoa that's really and you could
really see that it's picking up on
something like we're anthropomorphizing
and we're thinking of it as a human but
really there's something else entirely
going on yeah and there's something
about the notion that we give off these
signals that we don't realize there's a
level of connection to other people that
we're picking up you know they say that
80% of your brain is actually below the
surface it's the subconscious so like
when I think about like what was it that
drew me to my wife like it was I went
from saying I'm never getting married to
under no I'm actually marrying this
woman and I remember before I decided to
propose I said well I'm either never
getting married I'm marrying her and it
was so and I'm not I didn't don't
believe in love at first sight it didn't
feel like love at first sight or
anything like that it definitely
developed over time but it's interesting
how one person in my entire life has
ever held that sway over me and it is
just my wife and so it just makes me
wonder like how much of that like you
know like the fact that we have light
receptors on the back of our knees or in
our ears it's like places you never
think you know how much are we really
picking up how important this touch how
important are the things you were saying
before it's like there's a lot of we
probably don't know like we know that
gas discharge visualization cameras
and actually pick up somebody's aura
like the type of light that's coming off
their body all right and there's got to
be some kind of a faux pas together go
back as well I've never looked if you
look up gdv camera analysis what they
can do is actually take a photograph of
the light that's being emitted by the
body and when people have different
emotions and thoughts and belief
patterns the amount of light coming off
their body can either increase or
decrease and I interview this guy read
like what kind of light are we talking I
don't know what kind of light it is I
interviewed this guy on my podcasts Matt
maruka who studies light like sunlight
infrared light red light he said that
they photograph people and when when
like as soon as someone dies like there
there's absolutely no light like a
corpse emits none of this gdv based
light but when someone's alive walking
around like there's tons of light just
pouring off their body we know that
cells can communicate using photons of
light but it's interesting that it can
now be quantified and photographed these
these photons of light the the
interesting thing about the the the
electromagnetism the ability to be able
to detect somebody else's electrical
field is that I've experienced that
before like where my wife is lying in
bed and I know something's up like you
feel like something's wrong right in and
you can't tell if she's sleeping and
it's kind of a scenario if you're
watching the movie right this would be
the scene in which you know the spouse
is laying facing the wall but their eyes
are wide open and they look concerned
and the person lying across from them
like they kind of detect it you know
I'll be like honey is everything okay
you'll rise if something you talk about
and that's without you know it's in the
dark in the bedroom and the dark but you
can kind of like sense they're awake
they're facing the other direction maybe
their eyes are open and I think a large
part of that is somehow detecting that
electromagnetic field that that slight
decrease in HRV because they're stressed
out or that sympathetic nervous system
is a little aroused and so I do think we
can
did it's just difficult to quantify some
of that yeah that [__] is so interesting
to me I don't wait for more and more to
be known about that that's really really
interesting what's something that you
cut out of boundless that you thought I
really wanted that to be in oh let's see
one thing was like the whole like I had
a whole sidebar on like how to mitigate
the damaging effects of partying like
what to eat going into the party you
know what form of glutathione that you
should take and the different histamine
blocking enzymes that limit your
histamine response to alcohol and then
you know during the the trace liquid
minerals and some of these l.joe based
solutions that you can take to ensure
that your body stays very hydrated
during and then after you know the
activated charcoal and the aloe vera
extract and you know the the next day
the the repeat dose of glutathione and
these these different things that you
can do to enhance the delivers
antioxidant phases and you know it's
like a three page long sidebar like the
total guide to partying and feeling
feeling good afterwards and you know the
publisher will come to me for a section
like that just like this is interesting
but yeah it might be a little much we
don't know how many people reading this
book are off at raves and party animals
and you know Vegas jockeys so everything
though lives on like I put everything so
the websites boundless book calm for the
book and I just left everything alive on
that website is like bonus material when
you get the book so it's not like I had
to to you know say goodbye to my babies
as much as move them out of the
limelight a little bit yeah and maintain
the more important stuff in the book
they said that you're writing fiction
now yeah tell me more of a as a matter
of fact the the the wingless dragons in
book 1 which comes out actually in
December book 1 is called the forest
it's part of a five book series called
the worldly / series in which these
children can leap from world the world
and have power of the elements like one
has power
water another over Earth another for
water and another over fire and each of
the different worlds the first world is
a forest world the world I'm in the
middle of writing right now about
halfway through is the the ocean world
like the water world a desert world a
snow world and my kids want the last one
to be a space world and I haven't yet
settled on the space world but we'll see
it's it's it's young adult fiction
what's it come out to like 10 to 15 and
I think is young adult in book one
though the forest the wingless dragons
they detect their prey using
electromagnetism and their snouts which
I actually got after having learned what
you told me about sharks and so I try to
weave a lot of survivalism and and some
of the health concepts some of the
wilderness you know plant foraging and
some of the fitness you know when
they're training for battle I try to
weave some of that into the book cuz
it's fun for me to still maintain some
amount of connectedness to the stuff I'm
learning in my quote real job unquote
into this magical world that I'm
creating and everything's based on the
hero's journey you know every book is
architected around the hero's journey
and these children you know resistance
to the call and their ordinary world
crossing the threshold meeting their
mentors meeting the allies going to
battle you know defeating the enemy
returning home with the elixir and then
you know kind of passes on into the next
series of books and they're just a
little bit older from book to book what
made you want to write fiction I've
always written fiction I've absolutely
loved it there's been times in my life
when I haven't had time to do it
already a published fiction writer no
aside from like short stories and in
magazines for example you know when I
was a kid I used to tons of short
stories and submitted all these
different magazines and I wrote a novel
you know I was 13 this big fantasy
fiction novel and never published it I
published book 1 of the world leaper
series last year but just very small
launch you know I did like my own small
print run for my kids and their friends
in the school library but I actually
have my own imprint now and I'm doing a
big print run and
getting ready for this December launch
so that parents can order it in time for
Christmas of the forest and then the
ocean will come after that
that's so cool I'm you know I don't know
how much you know about my whole thesis
about the impact so the reason it's
called impact theory is because what I
found was I was working in the inner
cities a lot and I would just tell
people think like this act like this and
2% of them would and it changed her life
forever as it had changed mine I really
had to learn how to think in a new way
to become an entrepreneur and so I don't
have entrepreneurial instincts that
wasn't raised like an entrepreneur
anything it was just it just ultimately
ended up being a learnable skill and in
trying once you learn something you
realize okay I'm not that special but
I've been able to do something
extraordinary with my life how do I pass
that on and at Quest we had at one point
3,000 employees about a thousand of them
grew up in the inner cities their frame
of reference was just absolutely [__]
it just didn't make any sense and it was
never gonna lead them anywhere
interesting so I thought okay I
recognize the path that they're on it's
very similar to the path that I was on
so if I can learn these things that took
me down a different direction then I
should be able to teach them and so we
started calling it quest University and
I was trying to teach people like how to
think and I wrote the twenty five point
bullet belief system and like all this
stuff trying to give them the thought
patterns that they would need to go on
and learn the skills that they would
need to do whatever they want to work at
quest and rise up go to another company
start a company whatever they wanted to
do and it was really distressed that 98%
of people did nothing with the
information and 2% it was life-changing
but that's a very small number so I
started asking okay what would it take
no [__] what would it take to reach
the 98% of people and talk to
neuroscientists look at studies data all
of its gonna tell you that the way that
humans are similarly truly disruptive
information is your narrative so you hit
people at a limbic level you get them to
have an emotional reaction then all of a
sudden it's like okay cool I can drink
this information in if you talk to
Jordan Peterson and the way that he
comes out at very archetypal like you're
talking about they're just certain
things that were wired to take in in a
certain way humans are meaning-making
machines so obviously we have
all of this neural circuitry for making
sense of the world through metaphor and
all of that it's you know great for
heuristics to understand how to navigate
your way in the world in a very socially
complex world in a very dangerous world
for the vast majority of the you know
human time span so it's like okay cool
one that's my first passion anyway so
the fact that that road led me back to
something that I already am good at and
I loved I thought okay this if that's
really true can we create this sort of
graduation system so you hit people at a
limbic level but you're never gonna be
able to like give them really powerful
lessons you'll give them what I'll call
sort of rootkit things you can introduce
a growth mindset the hero's journey but
it's like hero's journey has been around
for how many thousands of years has not
exactly stopped your zip code from
becoming the number one predictor of
your success which sadly it is more than
your IQ the zip code that you grew up in
will predict your success crazy
so thinking all right well one of the
problems that I can solve is mindset so
you get people at Olympic level through
narrative graduate them to a show like
this where you're going to encounter
people that understand something about
their given domain of expertise and you
realize whoa I can shape my own body of
knowledge and then our ultimate thing is
impact Theory University so you you
graduate your way up and by the time you
get to impact Theory University it's
just straight curriculum so you're
learning how to build a business or
you're learning how mindset how to build
the ultimate mindset for success
whatever so that's our sort of
three-step thing so the reason that we
exist this actually make film and TV and
books and video games and all of that
stuff and as is in your gift basket
there is our first comic book that hit
the market were we have four more in
active development right now we're going
to be hopefully be turning me on future
into probably anime seems to be the more
we're getting more interest in that that
would be cool that would be very cool so
working on all of that have a bunch of
projects that we're trying to develop
straight for film but everything is
around empowerment that's it hero's
journey
it's like all about making sure that a
kid cannot get to the age of 15 without
at least encountering a growth mindset
in a character that they loved it I love
it
plus I don't have to read the airplane
magazine on the way home now there
you've got comic books you do yes you do
that's very cool
yeah so that is literally the impact
theory is that you can impact people
through story far more than anything
else I dig it
so yeah I'm super intrigued to see to
read your books the first ones out
you're saying the first one is out but
the better printing of it with the gold
foil and the insert with the character
cards and the the the better more
detailed map that is coming out in the
first week of December and then from
there I think the next book should
depending on how quickly I write it I'm
I'm on a two-sentence a day rule right
now okay it's better than zero sentences
it's maintaining momentum and then it's
you know now that boundless is about
wrapped up that'll get increased to
hopefully 2,000 words a day but I am
literally a to sentence as a day right
now
however I wanna have a book - done by
next summer Wow so wow that is
wonderfully aggressive yeah I dig it man
well sign me up I will read that thing
to death very excited and also enjoy
awesome thank you man
yeah and thank you for coming today it
is amazing to see you again you too
you you are a colorful man as always
both with fashion and also with with
your entire show I love what you do it's
very dynamic and I can't wait to read
the comic books and yours wonderful to
talk to so I appreciate it yeah man
thank you I feel the same any time
you're in town let me know I'll be back
on
awesome we have many thanks for joining
me all right peace out
like right now I'm supposed to go up for
a for a two-week hunt for grizzly and
doll sheep and caribou in the Arctic
Circle and I plan on taking no food with
me that will be a bow hunt I will rely
upon fish and plant foraging to get
through that